- Principles help in creating easily maintainable and extendable software.
- Design pattern utilitze a certain set of these key design principles.
- By learning design principles , it will help you better understand each design pattern that you study
- By learning these design principles, you will know what to do even in situations where a design pattern has not yet discovered.
	- You will already have the underlying concepts needed to solve the problem in the way that a pattern would
	- you are learning the mindset that the developers had when they solved the problems that were later identified as patterns.

## Common Characteristics of Design Principles
- They all contain some form of ==Modularization==
- There is a separation of concerns for each module.
	- each module knows what another module does, but it does not know how it does it
	- strive for ==high cohesion/low coupling==
- They identify the aspects of your application that vary and separate them from what stays the same.
- They favor ==abstraction== over ==implementation==
	- the design depends on an abstraction layer
		- makes your design open for future extensions
		- the abstraction is applied on the dynamic parts of the applicaton (which are most likely to be changed regularly)
	- hide low-level implementation through an abstract layer
		- low-level modules have a very high possibility to be changed regularly, so they are separate from high-level modules.
- They do not contain ==duplication==
- If you are using hard-coded values then make it `public final constant`
- The design for `classes/methods/modules` have a single focus and single responsibility
- ==Encapsulation== the code you expect to change in future.
- Make variables and methods private by default. (give least access)


---

## Common Strategies that design patterns use

1. Patterns are design to use ==interface==
2. Patterns favor ==aggregation== over ==inheritance==
	- aggregation means a collection of things that are not part of it.
		- eg airplanes at an airport
	- ==composition== means something is a part of another thing
		- cannot exist independent of the parent
		- eg wheels on the airplane
3. Patterns use ==Encapsulation== for variation
4. Patterns favors alternatives to large inheritance hierarchies.

---

## Design Smells

Smells of Bad design:
1. Rigidity -> Code difficult to change OR One change cause cascading of subsequent changes in dependent modules (tight coupling)
2. Fragility -> Code breaks in multiple places when single change is made.
3. Immobility -> when the effort and risk of separating parts from the original system are too great
4. Viscosity -> ?
5. Needless repetition -> Copy and paste throughout the code.
6. Opacity -> The tendency of a module to be difficult to understand.
7. Needless complexity -> do-not 'over-design'

### Smells in Java
1. Several classes that duplicate 90% of each other
	- use inheritance to remove duplication.
2. too many `public classes, members and methods`
3. classes that are too large
	- combining every single concept of your application into one massive class.
4. design smells often end up creating code is
	- hard to read
	- breaks easily
	- hard to maintain (adding new features or doing basic bug fixing.)

Tip-> Always strive for highly cohesive and loosely coupled solutions, code and design.

---

## Design Principles

1. Programming to an interface. (==ChatGPT==)
2. Composition over Inheritance.
3. Delegation Principles.
4. The Single Responsibility Principle.

