## Learning objectives

- Create automated tests using Playwright against web applications.
- Analyze and debug Playwright test results.
- Apply coding concepts and patterns to Playwright codebases.
- Understand how Playwright uses locators to interact with web browsers.
- Leverage the Playwright Test function to declare tests and write assertions.

Playwright is an open source tool by Microsoft that enables reliable end-to-end UI and API automation testing for modern web apps.

Provides access to multiple browsers like 
- Chromium
- Chrome
- Microsoft Edge
- FireFox
- Webkit

Q. Every playwright release have a set version of each of these browsers bundled when installing Playwright? ==what does it even mean== 
Q. How playwright provides these browsers? Its a huge undertaking.

Q. Why Playwright is closer to Selenium Webdriver than Cypress
-> ==An out-of-process automation driver that is not limited by the scope of in-page Javascript execution.==

Playwright can be used either like a library or as a Test Framework.

### What is Playwright Test?
- Playwright test has a built-in test runner with similar syntax to Jest. This allows you to build out test steps using Playwright-specific syntax.
- Ability to run tests in parallel with ability to enable retries
- useful built-in reporters with screenshots, videos and trace viewer.
- VS code extension to help in building and maintaining your tests.


### What choose playwright ?
- Ability to run API/UI regression tests in the same framework.
- Excellent error hanlding when tests fail.
- Flexvibility provided with project configurations.
- Built-in Locators auto-waiting and retry-ability.

Github-> https://github.com/LinkedInLearning/learning-playwright-5911873






