## Running a Web Server during a Playwright Test.

Documentation -> https://playwright.dev/docs/test-webserver
Documentation -> https://playwright.dev/docs/test-configuration#advanced-configuration

```Json title='package.json'
{
  "name": "playwright-essential-training-abstractions-fixtures-and-complex-scenarios-4278224",
  "version": "1.0.0",
  "description": "This is the repository for the LinkedIn Learning course `playwright-essential-training`. The full course is available from [LinkedIn Learning][lil-course-url].",
  "main": "index.js",
  "engines": {
    "node": ">=18.0.0"
  },
  "scripts": {
    "start": "cd bagel-shop && npm run start", //new command
    "install:bagel-shop": "cd bagel-shop && npm install", // new command
    "test": "npx playwright test",
    "test:chromium": "npx playwright test --project chromium",
    "test:first": "npx playwright test --grep @first",
    "test:local": "BASE_URL=http://localhost:4200 npx playwright test",
    "test:report": "npx playwright test && npx playwright show-report",
    "test:ui": "npx playwright test --ui"
  },
  "keywords": [],
  "author": "",
  "license": "ISC",
  "devDependencies": {
    "@playwright/test": "^1.51.1",
    "@types/node": "^22.13.4",
    "dotenv": "^16.4.7"
  }
}
```

```Typescript title='playwright.config.ts'
export default defineConfig({
  webServer: {
    command: "npm run start",
    port: 5173,
    timeout: 120 * 1000,
    reuseExistingServer: !process.env.CI,
  },
  timeout: 30_000,
  globalTimeout: 10 * 60 * 1000,
  testDir: "./tests",
```

```Typescript title="test.spec.ts"
import {test, expect} from '@playwright/test';

test("Bagel Shop Smoke Test", async({page})=>{
	await page.goto("http://localhost:5173");
	await expect(page.getByText("The best bagels in town since 1995!")).toBeVisible();
});
```
### Optimizing Playwright: Workers and Sharding.

Workers -> The number of isolated operating system processes that are run during a test execution.

Shards -> This functionality will allow you to split up your test into smaller parts called shards. 
Each of these shards are their own jobs that manage their own workers that can be run on their own computers. This ideally is dividing tests across multiple computers, which may have multiple workers running.

Sharding benefits
- Workers speed up deliveries **within** a truck
- **Shards** split the job across **multiple trucks**.
-  With both together, you can deliver packages **much faster !**

Note-> Sharding cannot be done from playwright.config.ts file .. it can only be done from terminal.

## Retrying tests in Playwright

Flakey Tests
- Tests got stuck in a bad state. For example tests expected to be in logged-in state but we are in logged-out state. Or maybe another test or user touched the data that you were asserting against.
- Race condition in automation code - where it is trying to make assertions before data is loaded within the page.
- Maybe test timeout because you didnt have the proper await syntax implemented.
- Or maybe Third-party service failed
- Maybe you hit a rate limit when you are making API calls.
- Latest code is not deployed to all servers : Maybe the test is passing every other run because we only have the latest code deployed to half the running servers if its behind the load balancer
- Test servers are underpowered - Maybe a container crash because its running it on the cheapest server possible.

Retrying tests helps you evaluate if the test truly failed.

Instructor recommendation -> You always check the test record that come back as flaky. This means they failed at least once and retry and passed. Investigating and determing why it failed is a must. Once you know why it failed you can 
- update the test or
- update the infrastructure or
- create a bug ticket
Having a test retry and pass without investigating why it did has the potential to miss intermittent bugs then can hurt the quality of the application we're testing. One other useful command that can be used to help prevent introducing flaky tests is to use the repeat each command.
What it does is run that test - n amount of times
```Terminal
npx playwright test tests/bagel-shop/ --repeat-each=10
```

Before committing it to your automation test suite, this can check if a test is flaky or not.

### Overview of timeouts in Playwright
https://playwright.dev/docs/test-timeouts

The global timeout is mentioned in `playwright.config.ts` and if a particular testcase in your suite needs more time than the global then u can override that timeout in the specific test
```Typescript title="test.spec.ts"
test("Bagel log Smoke Test",async({page})=>{
	test.setTimeout(60_000);
});
```

Ideally big wait tests should be broken down into smaller tests but you could use this.

**Before Each timeout.**
**Fixture timeout**
**Expect timeout**
**Action timeout**
**Navigation timeout**

