1. [[#TestCases Generation]]
2. [[#TestData Generation]]
3. [[#Test Requirement/ Product Requirement Analysis]]
4. [[#RAG Introduction]]


## TestCases Generation
### Option - 1: Using Chatgpt approach
```Prompt
Please write testcases for this website - http://eapp.somee.com with all possible permutations and combinations.
```

### Option - 2: Using ChatGpt and Page Source
Go the website and get its PageSource. So now basically we can provide the LLM of all the components of our website and ask it to generate testcases.
```Prompt
Can you analyse this page source and write me all the possible manual test scenarios and make sure that you are writing the scenarios like an experienced QA Engineers.
```

Once you have the test cases you can ask it to generate BDD Scenarios for these testcases
```Prompt
Write all the above scenarios in the BDD Gherkin format.
```

---

## TestData Generation

### Option 1 - Using ChatGPT and Page Source
```Prompt
Can you please include the Test Datas for the above login page - http://eapp.somee.com, here is the page source - 
```

```Prompt2
Can you add scenario for Validation in the above form where the fields are of different input strings which the field are not supported, like string or integers.
```

### Option 2 - Using Local LLM
Same as above.

---

## Test Requirement/ Product Requirement Analysis

### Option - 1: Google Notebook LLM
Upload the doc here and ask your questions from that document.

### Option - 2: Using Local LLM 'Local DB' Option.

---

## RAG Introduction

==Retrieval== - External Source of Knowledge or grounded source of knowledge (static) are fetched for information.

==Augmented== - Both External and Static knowledge are combined to create an information.

==Generation== - The learned knowledge is then generated with accuracy and gives context-aware responses.

Both NotebookLLM and LocalDB feature of GPT4All are an RAG tool

As RAG generated data based on the **context** and are **precise**, it will be very helpful to perform operation in Testing such as:
1. Test Plan generation (in our case)
2. Test case generation (as we have the requirement)
3. Sometime Test estimation (with historical source of information)

---

